# ternary-quilt
An exploration of visualizing ternary logic structures in Mathematica.

In logic, three-valued logic (or ternary) is a many-valued logic system in which there are three truth values indicating true, false and some indeterminate third value. Traditionally, a boolean or binary logic system is used where True and False are the truth values. Ternary logic has several applications in electrical circuitry and computer science.
	
This project implements ternary logic into the Mathematica language. It creates functions that generate ternary truth tables and adds support for the third truth value, "Undecided", or 0 in its boolean form. Additionally, a plot can be created to visualize the truth tables created by the functions. All truth table possibilities are converted into boolean values and are used to create a colorful plot. Several patterns and structures can be seen in these colorful array plots. The "TernaryFunction" will "translate" a truth table into a ternary logic expression with the given variables. Another function will create a table of every possible permutation of the four basic logic gates and the given variables. 
	
As of now, the function is unable to translate a "random" table of values. This is because not all ternary tables are valid. Ternary truth tables differ from binary in the fact that all binary truth tables can be converted into a logic expression. In the case of ternary logic, there are a large number of tables that cannot be converted back into expressions. A ternary truth table with 9 outputs could have a possible 3^9 different inputs. Out of these possibilities, only a fraction of them work with the TernaryFunction function. The order of the truth values also depends. Values entered in orders other than True, False, and Undecided will not be processed by the function.
